Docs: Split Custom Domains as Explanation and How-to Guide (Diátaxis) (#9676)
readthedocs/readthedocs.org: docs/user/guides/custom-domains.rst

How To Manage Custom Domains
============================

This guide describes how to host your documentation using your own domain name, such as ``docs.example.com``.

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:

Adding a custom domain
----------------------

To setup your :doc:`custom domain </custom-domains>`, follow these steps:

#. Go the :guilabel:`Admin` tab of your project.
#. Click on :guilabel:`Domains`.
#. Enter the domain where you want to serve the documentation from (e.g. ``docs.example.com``).
#. Mark the :guilabel:`Canonical` option if you want use this domain
   as your :doc:`canonical domain </canonical-urls>`.
#. Click on :guilabel:`Add`.
#. At the top of the next page you'll find the value of the DNS record that you need to point your domain to.
   For |org_brand| this is ``readthedocs.io``, and for :doc:`/commercial/index`
   the record is in the form of ``<hash>.domains.readthedocs.com``.

   .. note::

      For a subdomain like ``docs.example.com`` add a CNAME record,
      and for a root domain like ``example.com`` use an ANAME or ALIAS record.

> By default, we provide a validated SSL certificate for the domain,

Author: What does the "by default" part mean? Are there other options? CC: @ericholscher

Author: What I mean is that maybe we should a) remove "By default" or b) explain if there are other options (perhaps in a separate tip box)

Reviewer: Yea, I think we just remove the `by default`.

Author: Rm'ed!

   DNS A records require a static IP address and our IPs may change without notice.

Removing a custom domain
------------------------

To remove a custom domain:

#. Go the :guilabel:`Admin` tab of your project.
#. Click on :guilabel:`Domains`.
#. Click the :guilabel:`Remove` button next to the domain.
#. Click :guilabel:`Confirm` on the confirmation page.

.. warning::

    Once a domain is removed,
    your previous documentation domain is no longer served by Read the Docs,
    and any request for it will return a 404 Not Found!

Strict Transport Security (HSTS) and other custom headers
---------------------------------------------------------

By default, we do not return a `Strict Transport Security header`_ (HSTS) for user custom domains.
This is a conscious decision as it can be misconfigured in a not easily reversible way.
For both |org_brand| and |com_brand|, HSTS and other custom headers can be set upon request.

We always return the HSTS header with a max-age of at least one year
for our own domains including ``*.readthedocs.io``, ``*.readthedocs-hosted.com``, ``readthedocs.org`` and ``readthedocs.com``.

> Please contact :doc:`/support` if you want to add a custom header to your domain.

Author: Note: It's because of this exact instruction that I think we can keep this under How-To. There isn't much to be said in an Explanation on this topic. If someone needs HSTS, they know what they are doing and can probably find it natural that this section is in the How-To.

.. _Strict Transport Security header: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Strict-Transport-Security

Multiple documentation sites as sub-folders of a domain
-------------------------------------------------------

You may host multiple documentation repositories as **sub-folders of a single domain**.
For example, ``docs.example.org/projects/repo1`` and ``docs.example.org/projects/repo2``.
This is `a way to boost the SEO of your website <https://moz.com/blog/subdomains-vs-subfolders-rel-canonical-vs-301-how-to-structure-links-optimally-for-seo-whiteboard-friday>`_.

> See :doc:`/subprojects` for more information.

Author: This section should be moved to Explanation or simply be a `seealso::`.

under :guilabel:`Admin` > :guilabel:`Domains` > :guilabel:`YOURDOMAIN.TLD (details)`.

Domains are usually validated and a certificate issued within minutes.
However, if you setup the domain in Read the Docs without provisioning the necessary DNS changes
and then update DNS hours or days later,
this can cause a delay in validating because there is an exponential back-off in validation.

.. tip::

    Loading the domain details in the Read the Docs dashboard and saving the domain again will force a revalidation.

The validation process period has ended
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After you add a new custom domain, you have 30 days to complete the configuration.
Once that period has ended, we will stop trying to validate your domain.
If you still want to complete the configuration,
go to your domain and click on :guilabel:`Save` to restart the process.

Migrating from GitBook
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If your custom domain was previously used in GitBook, contact GitBook support (via live chat in their website)
to remove the domain name from their DNS Zone in order for your domain name to work with Read the Docs,

> else it will always redirect to GitBook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
otherwise it will always redirect to GitBook.
```

This section feels weird to me, and can probably be removed?

How To Manage Custom Domains
============================

> In this guide, you will find the simple steps of how to host your documentation from your own domain name, such as ``yourdomain.tld`` or ``docs.yourdomain.tld``.

Author: Except for addition of the introduction, none of the original text is modified.

Reviewer 2: It's best to always use `example.com` for mock domains, as it's a reserved name:
https://www.iana.org/domains/reserved

Apex domains are probably worth avoiding in the intro as well, as we only support this on certain providers. The various implementations of cname flattening/aname/etc are all proprietary features.

Also, a few less words for clarity:

```suggestion
This guide describes how to host your documentation using your own domain name, such as  ``docs.example.com``.
```

Author: Sounds good with the domain :+1:

I don't have preferences regarding active or passive language. It's nice to be consistent of course! But I think we are mixing the two already? Anyways, I like both the conciseness or accuracy that passive language often leads to... but active language is often friendlier and easier to read.

I thought the introduction paragraph was a good way to introduce the subject with an active voice and then try to adapt the texts later.

Author: Btw our guidelines don't say anything about active/passive nor writing style in general: https://dev.readthedocs.io/en/latest/docs.html

Is there another resource I've been missing?

Reviewer 2: We don't have an internal styleguide, this is more general advice for documentation -- write clear, concise sentences. The MS styleguide is fairly thorough and modern, I defer to that usually.

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/word-choice/use-simple-words-concise-sentences

I'm not sure I follow on your point about active and passive language. What are you describing here?

_Active voice_, is something to aim for, but neither of these sentences speak in passive voice. The original text just wasn't as definitive and confident about the purpose of this guide -- "In this guide, you will find X" instead of "This guide has X". I suppose for that, I'd say the original sounds more passive.

Author: There must be another term then. I'm referring to putting "you", i.e. the reader, into sentences. I have previously written in Danish where the styleguide said to use "you".

Author: That's a good precise guide!

I also like [Hemingway](https://hemingwayapp.com/) and I like the writings by Adam Johnson:

https://adamj.eu/tech/2019/05/06/improving-my-technical-writing/

Reviewer 2: > I'm referring to putting "you", i.e. the reader, into sentences.

Ah gotcha! No, this isn't a problem at all. Speaking to the user directly is still absolutely fine, especially if we are instructing the user to take some action. It just resulted in less clear language in the original text.

Author: This was good feedback and nice to re-read. I will mark it as resolved :+1:

.. contents:: Contents
    :local:

> .. _adding_domain:

Reviewer 3: IIRC, these are not needed since we use `autosectionlabel` extension: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/autosectionlabel.html

Author: Yes, this must be some artifact from a refactor where I thought I had a wrong incoming reference. It doesn't even seem to be referenced. Removed! Thanks!

We always return the HSTS header with a max-age of at least one year
for our own domains including ``*.readthedocs.io``, ``*.readthedocs-hosted.com``, ``readthedocs.org`` and ``readthedocs.com``.

> .. sealso:

Reviewer: This feels like an odd seealso, since it's not content. I think we want a note or tip? 

Also it's currently rendering as a comment because it's missing a `:` :D

Author: Definitely looks better as a note :+1:
